- [Instructor] Now let us talk in brief about
expression languages implicit objects.
In the previous demo, we accessed the map of weight
summary from the request scope name.
Right.
Where did that come from?
So that's basically what we're going to talk about now.
We know that in an expression language the expression
could be written as dollar and the curly pair of braces
and then the name of the property.
Or you can alternately write it as dollar and then
request scope dot number of items.
So basically what each of these expressions is doing
is mostly the same thing.
Let's understand that.
When you talk about EL's implicit objects,
please understand that they are not the same as
our jsp implicit objects.
If you recall from a previous videos, there were nine
implicit objects in jsp that we had talked about,
and those are the ones that are of specific type.
HTTP servlet request, HTTP servlet response, then you had
servlet context, servlet config,
then you had HTTP session etc, right?
But when you talk about expression language,
the implicit objects are not the same as you have in jsp.
So then what are they?
Most of them are java . util . map instances,
so basically objects of the map interface
containing the value pairs of attributes from the
actual jsp implicit objects.
What does this mean?
Let's understand this.
Let's say this is your implicit object of jsp,
which is a request, HTTP servlet request is which it
belongs to.
Now from this object, if I take out all the attributes
which are in the form of key and value, and I put them
in a hash map, in the form of key and value,
then that hash map that I get is basically my expression
language implicit object and the name for that is
request scope, right?
So all those implicit objects, let's say for example
HTTP session, so the same thing has been done for HTTP
session, all the key value attributes are picked up,
extracted, they are put in a hash map, and then that
hash map becomes session scope.
That's exactly why we are saying that they are java.util.map
instances and they contain only the attribute information
in the form of key and value.
Okay.
So let's take a look at EL implicit objects are
available for us.
The first one is request scope that we just saw.
So it's basically a map of all the attributes of the
actual HTTP servlet request implicit object.
Up next is the session scope.
That's another implicit object in EL which is a map
of all the attributes of the actual HTTP session object.
Page scope, it is a map of all page-scope attributes.
Application scope.
Application scope is a map of all application
scoped attributes, so if you remember in the jsp
implicit objects, there's a scope called page.
And whatever attributes that you store in page,
those are going to be extracted and put in a separate
hash map which is the page scope.
Okay.
Similarly, whatever attributes are present as a part
of the application scope, which is the servlet context
object, they're going to be extracted and put in a map
and that map is going to be named as application scope.
Cookies, this is going to map your cookie objects.
The next one is param.
The param implicit object of EL is basically going to
help you get the request parameter.
So let's say in your servlet classes we've already
been using this request . get parameter over and over,
right?
So if on a jsp you want to extract the parameter out of the
request, you can just use this implicit object of param
and mention the name of this parameter using the dot
operator and you'll get the value for it.
Next is the header.
So this is going to return you the value of a header.
Right.
A single header and its value.
So let's say you say dollar and you say header,
so that's the implicit object, and in a pair of square
brackets if you mention the name of the header,
like user agent, or content type, etc,
then it is going to return you the value of that header.
For example, when I say dollar header user agent,
it means that I'm going to get the value of
the browser information.
So Mozilla, Internet, Firefox, etc.
So I can actually go ahead and use that user agent property
in order to conditionally code for the kinds of browsers
on my jsp page.
Header values, so the way header gets you a single value
for a particular header,
header values is going to get you all the values of
all headers in an array.
Init param, if you remember we had this context init
parameters concept where you can pass configuration
information to all the servlets, right?
So in your servlet you would have done context . get init
parameter to fetch that context init parameter.
If however you want to do it on your jsp page through
the expression language, you can access the init param
implicit object and just feed the name of the property
using the dot operator and you'll get the value.
Page context.
Now page context is the only object which is exactly
the same as the page context implicit object.
Right?
Apart from this, all the other implicit objects that you see
are those map instances.
But page context is exactly the same as you see in jsp.
So if you recall our discussion, page context in jsp
is the one which has a reference to all the
implicit objects of jsp.
That's the same object that we have even in
expression language.
So if you really want to access only the attribute
information out of all of these implicit objects,
you can go ahead with these names.
However, if you want to access something other than
attribute information from the implicit objects,
then you can get hold of the page context object
and from there you can access the actual implicit object
of jsp and get any other information.
The last point to note is, we've already discussed this
but I'm just iterating this again.
If a pre-defined scope is not mentioned in the expression,
like for example when we say,
dollar and a curly pair or braces cart dot number of items,
here we have really not mentioned any scope.
We have not mentioned any implicit object of
expression language as a part of this expression.
If that's the case, then the system or the expression
language is basically going to do search that object
in all the scopes in the following order.
First, we'll go to the page scope and then it'll search
for a property called cart.
If it doesn't get it, it'll go in the request.
Doesn't get it again?
It'll go in the session.
If it doesn't get it yet again, It'll go to the application.
So wherever it finds that property, it is going to
pick it up and from that it is going to display to you
the number of items value.
Now, whenever you talk about this it is a little risky
business because if you have the same property
name in two different objects, in two different scopes,
let's say the property cart is available in the session
scope, and the application scope,
then your expression language system is possibly going
to encounter a problem.
It doesn't know where to pick it from.
So if you're absolutely sure that this object is only
present in one scope, you can directly access it in the
expression language.
If however, you want to be particular and pick it up from
a specific scope, then you may want to go ahead and
use those implicit objects of the expression language.
Right.
So you have implicit objects of expression language
and generally when we write expressions we stick to the
implicit objects of expression language.
If you are writing a scriptlet and an expression element
on jsp, then you can stick to the jsp implicit objects.